---
layout: page
---

# `outfits` resource

Contains information about the outfits generated by the service. The user must upload clothing items of differen types to the service before creating outfits out of those clothing items.

The `clothingItems` property is what tells the service which clothing items make up an outfit.

## Base endpoint

```shell

{server_url}/outfits
```

The `{server_url}` for the service is `http://localhost:3000`.

## Properties of the `outfits` resource

### `name`

A string that uniquely identifies the outfit.

### `season`

A string that describes the season in which the user can wear the outfit. The service allows one `season` per `outfit`.

### `event`

A string that describes the event type that the user can wear the outfit to. The service uses the `event` property to determine what types of clothing make up an outfit.

### `description`

A string that provides a long description of the outfit.

### `clothingItems`

A string with arrays that contain the `clothing` resources that make up an outfit.

### `id`

A number that represens the outfit's unique record ID.

## Sample `clothing` resource

``` json
 {
      "name": "picnic outfit",
      "season": "spring",
      "event": "outdoors",
      "description": "Cottage-core, but make it practical.",
      "clothingItems": [
        "long-sleeved shirt",
        "denim jeans",
        "sneakers",
        "backpack"
      ],
      "id": 4
    }
```

## `outfit` operations

### Read operations

* [Get all outfits](outfits-get-all-outfits.md)

### Create operations

* [Post a new outfit](outfits-post-a-new-outfit.md)

### Update operations

* [Patch an outfit](outfits-patch-an-outfit-by-id.md)

### Delete operations

* [Delete an outfit](outfits-delete-an-outfit.md)

## Related tutorials

* [Get an outfit based on clothing items](../tutorials/outfits-get-outfit-based-on-clothing-item.md)
* [Get an outfit based on season](../tutorials/outfits-get-all-outfits-by-season.md)
